#This document contains theory part of the basic plots


What is a line plot and why use it?

A line chart or line plot is a type of plot which displays information as a series of data points called 'markers' connected by straight line segments. It is a basic type of chart common in many fields. Use line plot when you have a continuous data set. These are best suited for trend-based visualizations of data over a period of time.

Line plot

This more suitable when we want to plot the data over the time period.

A line plot is a type of plot that displays information as series of data points connected by staright lines.

visualizing trends and changes over time
showing relationships
compare multiple data series
highlighting sudden changes or anamolies

Bar-plot :

This type of plot is more useful for comparing the data such as sales of a product with respect to other products.

Scatter

can be used when we have continous data.detecting the outliers,

investigating the trends

Box-Plot:
Represents the interquatile range as a box, a median line, and whiskers indicating the range. outliers ill be found after the whiskers.

Use Case:
Compare the distrubution of a continious variable across the different categoried or groups.

Compare the distrubution of a continuous variable across the different categoris or groups

examine spread and skewness of a dataset,visualising the data

summary statistics

compare distrubutions of multiple variables in data

PLotting libraries
matplotlib: Its is general purpose library
1.Integrates with other libraries and frameworks such as seaborne numpy plotly

Features: can create wide vairety of plots
customizes various elements

pandas: users employ it for data manipulation
its functions are built on matplotlib.

Features :Integrates seamlessly with pandas data structure,
most suitable foe exploratory data analysis 

seaborne: Great option for specialized statistical visualizations,provides stylish plots

Features: offers various color palettes and styles
offers functions to combine multiple plots in a grid.
integrates with pandas with series.\\


folium: used for geo spatial data maps,buikds interactive maps,integrates with pandas and numpy

plotly: it is more suitable when we want to create the interactive plots, can create variety of plots

Feature:
helps you build interactive dashboards, enables you plotting in a web browser.

pywaffle: visualizes the categorical data using waffle charts

Features:
Provides a unique way to represent proportions.



Detailed info on matplotlib library:
john hunter(1968-2012)

3 layers: 1.Backemd layer: INTERFACE Classes

Figure canvas : matplolib.backend_bases.figurecanvas
this encompasses the are onto which figure is drawn.
Renderer: matplolib.backend_bases.renderer
Knows hoe to draw on the figure canvas.
2.artist layer: main layer in the library
knows how to use the renderer to draw on the canvas.
Title,lines,tick labels and imahes all corresponf to individual artist instances.

2 types of objects
1. primitive line2d,rectangle,circle,text.
2. Composite: Axis,Tick,Axes and Figure.

3.Scripting layer: the layer where user interacts with the the library through the scripts

matplot lib can be integrated with many frame worls and libraries

!matplotlib inline - this in inline function intially for a plot whene a plot function is called and creates a plot if not exists
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.plot(5,5,'0')
plot.show()



Summary: Introduction to Data Visualization Tools
Congratulations! You have completed this module. At this point in the course, you know: 

Data visualization is the process of presenting data in a visual format, such as charts, graphs, and maps, to help people understand and analyze data easily. 

Data visualization has diverse use cases, such as in business, science, healthcare, and finance. 

It is important to follow best practices, such as selecting appropriate visualizations for the data being presented, choosing colors and fonts that are easy to read and interpret, and minimizing clutter.

There are various types of plots commonly used in data visualization.

Line plots capture trends and changes over time, allowing us to see patterns and fluctuations.

Bar plots compare categories or groups, providing a visual comparison of their values.

Scatter plots explore relationships between variables, helping us identify correlations or trends.

Box plots display the distribution of data, showcasing the median, quartiles, and outliers.

Histograms illustrate the distribution of data within specific intervals, allowing us to understand its shape and concentration.

Matplotlib is a plotting library that offers a wide range of plotting capabilities.

Pandas is a plotting library that provides Integrated plotting functionalities for data analysis.

Seaborn is a specialized library for statistical visualizations, offering attractive default aesthetics and color palettes.

Folium is a Python library that allows you to create interactive and customizable maps.

Plotly is an interactive and dynamic library for data visualization that supports a wide range of plot types and interactive features.

PyWaffle enables you to visualize proportional representation using squares or rectangles.

Matplotlib is one of the most widely used data visualization libraries in Python. 

Matplotlib was initially developed as an EEG/ECoG visualization tool. 

Matplotlib’s architecture is composed of three main layers: Backend layer, Artist layer, and the Scripting layer. 

The anatomy of a plot refers to the different components and elements that make up a visual representation of data.

Matplotlib is a well-established data visualization library that can be integrated in different environments. 

Jupyter Notebook is an open-source web application that allows you to create and share documents.

Matplotlib has a number of different backends available. 

You can easily include the label and title to your plot with plt.

In order to start creating different types of plots of the data, you will need to import the data into a Pandas DataFrame.

A line plot is a plot in the form of a series of data points connected by straight line segments. 

Line plot is one of the most basic type of chart and is common in many fields. 

You can generate a line plot by assigning "line" to 'Kind' parameter in the plot() function.


Area Plot:
also known as area chart or graph
dispalys magnitude and proportion of multiple variables.
represents time or another ordered dimension
is based on lineplot

uses:

Tracking stock market performance
visualizing population demographics
dispalying the distrubution of resources

Histogram:
Represents the frquency distrubution of a data-set
Partitions numeric data into bins
kind = hist
we can use numpy library for histogram representation

plt.annotate('',  # s: str. will leave it blank for no text
             xy=(32, 70),  # place head of the arrow at point (year 2012 , pop 70)
             xytext=(28, 20),  # place base of the arrow at point (year 2008 , pop 20)
             xycoords='data',  # will use the coordinate system of the object being annotated
             arrowprops=dict(arrowstyle='->', connectionstyle='arc3', color='blue', lw=2)
             )

# Annotate Text
plt.annotate('2008 - 2011 Financial Crisis',  # text to display
             xy=(28, 30),  # start the text at at point (year 2008 , pop 30)
             rotation=72.5,  # based on trial and error to match the arrow
             va='bottom',  # want the text to be vertically 'bottom' aligned
             ha='left',  # want the text to be horizontally 'left' algned.
             )

plt.show()


Pie Charts:
A circular staistical graphic divided into segments
illustrate numerical proportion

pie charts are less accurate than barcharts


Box Plots: Box plot is nothing representing the statistical data through 5 dimensions 
1. Minimum: Smallest value
2.First Quartile: First quartile is the point 25% of the way through the sorted data, in other words, a quarter of the data points are less than this value. 
3. Median: Median 
4. third Quartile: First quartile is the point 75% of the way through the sorted data, in other words, a quarter of the data points are less than this value. 
5.Maximum: Highest 

Used determine the outliers


Scatter Plot:displaying the values pretaing to twovariables
Determine the corelation between the 2 variables




